# PCA-based anomaly detection

<h4>Anomaly detection is an application of unsupervised learning that detects anomalous samples in datasets and data streams. Airbus uses it to <i>predict failures in jet engines</i> and<i> detect anomalies in telemetry data </i>beamed down from the International Space Station. Credit-card companies use it to detect fraudulent transactions. One of the more popular ways to build anomaly-detection models relies on principal component analysis, or PCA. PCA-based anomaly-detection models work by using PCA to transform a dataset, inverting the transform to attempt to restore the original dataset, and measuring the differences between the samples in the original dataset and the restored dataset. Anomalous samples are likely to exhibit a higher difference (loss) than "normal" samples, which enables future samples to be identified as normal or anomalous by computing the loss and comparing it to a chosen loss threshold.<br></h4>
<h4>This notebook applies PCA-based anomaly detection to a subset of a <i>dataset published by NASA</i> to predict failures in bearings. The dataset contains vibration data for four bearings supporting a rotating shaft with a radial load of 6,000 pounds applied to it. The bearings were run to failure, and vibration data was captured by PCB 353B33 high-sensitivity quartz accelerometers at regular intervals until failure occurred. This is analogous to the types of models aircraft manufacturers use to perform predictive maintenance on aircraft and aircraft engines. And it's a great example of how machine learning is used in industry to save lives and solve business problems.</h4>
